Docs for Analytics Rules plugin [PAB-4742] (#3395)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/streaming-analytics/analytics-rules-plugin-bundle/understanding-the-plugin.md

---
weight: 15
title: Understanding the Analytics rules plugin
layout: redirect
---

> ### Analytics Builder workflow vs Analytics rules plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Analytics Builder workflow versus Analytics rules plugin
```

#### Standard Analytics Builder workflow
In the standard Analytics Builder workflow, to deploy analytics instances, users must switch from their primary workflow to the Analytics Builder:

> 1. Navigate to Streaming Analytics application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the Streaming Analytics application.
```

Author: updated

> 2. Go to Analytics Builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Analytics Builder**.
```

> 3. Select your model and navigate to the Instances page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select your model and navigate to the **Instances** page.
```

4. Create instances/rules for the model in the instance editor.
5. Configure and deploy rules from the instance editor.

This process requires switching between applications and can be time-consuming when managing rules for multiple devices or groups.

> For detailed information about the instance editor workflow, refer to the [Instance Editor documentation](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#using-the-instance-editor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information about the instance editor workflow, refer to [Instance Editor](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#using-the-instance-editor).
```

> For detailed information about the instance editor workflow, refer to [Instance Editor](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#using-the-instance-editor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information about the instance editor workflow, refer to [Instance editor](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#using-the-instance-editor).
```

Author: updated

#### With Analytics rules plugin
The Analytics rules plugin streamlines this process by enabling analytics builder model instance creation and deployment directly from device and group contexts, eliminating the need for switching to different application.

> ### Understanding the Analytics Rules Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding the Analytics rules interface
```

> A rule has the following fields and properties:

Reviewer: @nnat-nabu Please change this to a table

Author: done

- **Name**: Automatically populated with the model name but can be customized to provide more descriptive names. When creating multiple rules from the same model without changing the rule name, the plugin automatically appends #1, #2, #3, etc. to differentiate between instances.
- **Note**: You can add a note for the rule.
- **Created**: Shows the timestamp of when the rule was created.
- **Last Updated**: Shows the timestamp of when the rule was last updated.
- **Model Name**: Displays the name of the model associated with the rule. This field is read-only.
- **Template Parameters**: Template parameters configured as "From Context" are automatically populated based on your current device/group context. Context-based parameters are read-only as they inherit values from the current context. Non-context template parameters remain editable for user configuration.
- **Active/Inactive**: Deploy the rule by toggling from inactive to active state. Once the rule is deployed, all fields and properties become read-only unless the rule is undeployed.

Rules are sorted by instance name.

> ### Integration with Analytics Builder Instance Editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Integration with Analytics Builder instance editor
```

Author: done

> | **Created**          | Shows the timestamp of when the rule was created.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Created**          | Shows the timestamp when the rule was created.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

> | **Last Updated**     | Shows the timestamp of when the rule was last updated.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Last Updated**     | Shows the timestamp when the rule was last updated.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

The Analytics rules plugin maintains seamless bidirectional integration with the Analytics Builder instance editor.

Rules created in the Analytics Builder instance editor appear in the Analytics rules plugin only when the mode is set to **Production**. Non-production modes indicate the rule is under development or testing and not ready for deployment.

> Rules created through the Analytics Rules plugin automatically appear in the corresponding model's instance editor page. These rules can be edited, modified, or deleted from the instance editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules created through the Analytics Rules plugin automatically appear in the corresponding model's instance editor. These rules can be edited, modified, or deleted from the instance editor.
```

Author: updated

> To prevent deployment of incomplete rules, the instance editor includes enhanced validation on instance name. The instance name field is required and must be unique within your tenant. Instance is available for deployment only after you provide a unique, non-empty instance name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent deployment of incomplete rules, the instance editor includes enhanced validation on the instance name. The instance name is required and must be unique within your tenant. The instance is available for deployment only after you provide a unique, non-empty instance name.
```

Author: updated

> | **Template Parameters** | Template parameters configured as "From Context" are automatically populated based on your current device/group context.<br>Context-based parameters are read-only as they inherit values from the current context.<br>Non-context template parameters remain editable for user configuration. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Template parameters** | Template parameters configured as "From context" are automatically populated based on your current device/group context.<br>Context-based parameters are read-only as they inherit values from the current context.<br>Non-context template parameters remain editable for user configuration. |
```

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}

> This validation applies only to models configured with template parameters where Value Selection is set to "From Context".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This validation applies only to models configured with template parameters with the value selection set to "From Context".
```

> This validation applies only to models configured with template parameters with the value selection set to "From Context".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This validation applies only to models configured with template parameters with the value selection set to "From context".
```

---
weight: 15

> title: Understanding the Analytics Rules plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Understanding the Analytics rules plugin
```

layout: redirect
---

> ### Analytics Builder Workflow vs Plugin Approach

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Analytics Builder workflow vs Analytics rules plugin
```

> #### Standard Analytics Builder Workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Standard Analytics Builder workflow
```

In the standard Analytics Builder workflow, to deploy analytics instances, users must switch from their primary workflow to the Analytics Builder:

1. Navigate to Streaming Analytics application.
2. Go to Analytics Builder.
3. Select your model and navigate to the Instances page.
4. Create instances/rules for the model in the instance editor.
5. Configure and deploy rules from the instance editor.

This process requires switching between applications and can be time-consuming when managing rules for multiple devices or groups.

For detailed information about the instance editor workflow, refer to the [Instance Editor documentation](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#using-the-instance-editor).

> #### With Analytics Rules Plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### With Analytics rules plugin
```

> The Analytics Rules plugin streamlines this process by enabling rule creation and deployment directly from device and group contexts within Device Management and Cockpit applications, eliminating the need for application switching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Analytics rules plugin streamlines this process by enabling analytics builder model instance creation and deployment directly from device and group contexts within shell applications, eliminating the need for switching to different application.
```

> ### Accessing Analytics Rules from Group Context in Host Applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Accessing Analytics rules from Group context in shell/host? applications
```

**Prerequisites**: You need a model with a template parameter configured with **Value Selection** set to **From Context** and **Source or Destination** restricted to **Groups**.

> #### From Cockpit Application

Reviewer 2: remove this section

1. Navigate to **Cockpit** application.
2. Create a group and assign a device to that group.
3. Go to **Groups** and select the created group.
4. Click the **Analytics rules** tab in the group details view on the top bar.
5. Click **Add rule** to open the Add analytics rule dialog box. Only models configured with "From Context" template parameters and restricted to "Groups" will be listed. Select your configured model and click **OK**.
6. Update the rule name if needed. Click **Save** to save the rule, or toggle to **Active** to save and deploy immediately.

![Cockpit group context](/images/streaming-analytics/analytics-rules-plugin/cockpit-group.png)

> #### From Device Management Application

Reviewer 2: remove this section

The process is identical to Cockpit - navigate to **Device Management** > **Groups**, select a group, and access the **Analytics rules** tab. Follow steps 5-6 from the Cockpit process above for creating and configuring rules.

### Understanding the Analytics Rules Interface

A rule has the following fields and properties:

> - **Rule Name**: Automatically populated with the model name but can be customized to provide more descriptive names. When creating multiple rules from the same model without changing the rule name, the plugin automatically appends #1, #2, #3, etc. for distinction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Name**: Automatically populated with the model name but can be customized to provide more descriptive names. When creating multiple rules from the same model without changing the rule name, the plugin automatically appends #1, #2, #3, etc. to differentiate between instances.
```

- **Note**: You can add a note for the rule.

> - **Created**: Shows when the rule was created.

Reviewer 2: shows what?

- **Last Updated**: Shows the timestamp of when the rule was last updated.

> - **Model Name**: The name of the model for which the rule is created.

Reviewer 2: say that this is readonly

> - **Help Icon**: A popover dialog that contains the model description.

Reviewer 2: remove

- **Template Parameters**: Template parameters configured as "From Context" are automatically populated based on your current device/group context. Context-based parameters are read-only as they inherit values from the current context. Non-context template parameters remain editable for user configuration.
- **Active/Inactive**: Deploy the rule by toggling from inactive to active state. Once the rule is deployed, all fields and properties become read-only unless the rule is undeployed.

> - **Delete**: To delete the rule, click the delete button.

Reviewer 2: remove

> Rules are sorted by instance name. All plugin-created rules are automatically set to Production mode for immediate deployment.

Reviewer 2: perhaps remove the sentence about production mode

### Integration with Analytics Builder Instance Editor

> The Analytics Rules plugin maintains seamless bidirectional integration with the Analytics Builder instance editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Analytics rules plugin maintains seamless bidirectional integration with the Analytics Builder instance editor.
```

> Rules created in the Analytics Builder instance editor appear in the Analytics Rules plugin only when the mode is set to **Production**. Non-production modes indicate the rule is under development or testing and not ready for deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rules created in the Analytics Builder instance editor appear in the Analytics rules plugin only when the mode is set to **Production**. Non-production modes indicate the rule is under development or testing and not ready for deployment.
```

> Rules created through the Analytics Rules plugin automatically appear in the corresponding model's instance editor page. Plugin-created rules are set to **Production mode** by default. These rules can be edited, modified, or deleted from the instance editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rules created through the Analytics Rules plugin automatically appear in the corresponding model's instance editor page. These rules can be edited, modified, or deleted from the instance editor.
```

Author: updated

> To ensure quality and prevent deployment of incomplete rules, the instance editor includes enhanced validation for Production mode. The instance name field is required and must be unique within your tenant. Production mode only becomes available after you provide a unique, non-empty instance name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent deployment of incomplete rules, the instance editor includes enhanced validation on instance name. The instance name field is required and must be unique within your tenant. Instance is available for deployment only after you provide a unique, non-empty instance name.
```

Author: updated

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
This validation applies only to models configured with template parameters where Value Selection is set to "From Context".
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> - When the instance name is empty, Production mode is disabled in the dropdown and displays the message **Set distinct instance name to select production mode** below the mode field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the instance name is empty, a message **Set distinct instance name to select production mode** is displayed below the mode field.
```

Author: updated
